We publish booklets, and we give them information
at closing, and we visit with all the landscape
architects and architectural, I mean, landscape
firms that operate in the woodlands to try to get
them to think about this natural environment and
saving trees. So that's an ongoing process. Yeah,
every year we have something called Arbor Day, and
we've given away, how many of them? 330 pounds.
seedlings and small trees, and people stand in
line to get those trees, and they take them home,
and they plant them in the yard. They plant them.
And we did get to have the wildflower festival.
Wildflowers are deeply part of the image of the
woodlands. Lady Bird Johnson has been here for
several seminars. She's deeply involved in
wildflowers. Texas wildflowers are something we
plant and cultivate every year and have a very
well-defined program to propagate those. At what
point following 86 did you feel like you were
rounding the hump, let's say, of the financial
priority? You may not have felt that way yet. I
guess we're still working on it. Statistically,
the third quarter of 1987 is when The Houston
economy started rebounding. I think we gained
12,000 jobs in Houston in the third quarter of 1987
after having lost 200,000. That was the first time
you could see it coming back. In 1988, I think we
gained maybe 30,000 jobs at about that level,
maybe 40,000 jobs in 1989. Also, according to a
study done by Barton Smith at the University of
Houston, you probably know, Houston is now about
60% energy-dependent, where it was 80%
energy-dependent. And the strengths are, you
know, the port of Houston, it's number one in the
nation in terms of export tonnage. And most of that
is not petroleum-related. It's grain and
foodstuffs and things like that. The NASA Space
Center, of course, has come back strongly during
the downturn. During that downturn, we were
blessed, too, with the largest highway
construction program ever undertaken in this
region. More than a billion dollars a year was
spent on highway construction in the Houston
region, which exceeded any other state in the
nation except California for a five-year period
of time. And, of course, the tremendous growth and
expansion of the Texas Medical Center, a $5
billion expansion program underway out there,
and it's still ongoing. really helped the Houston
economy. Compact Computer came into being and
didn't exist in 1982. And that's one of the major
companies in this country. And it's located 20
miles away. The biotechnology industry and
startup companies that have come out of that. Dr.
Dominic Lamb, you'll enjoy that interview. He's a
very interesting, intelligent, bright,
energetic person. You'll get a lot from Dr. Lamb.
There was another matter I was going to mention.
By 88, you can see things moving in the right
direction. 89 was a good year. This year, we'll
have a record year in home sales. So far, we've sold
almost $120 billion worth of homes, $120 million
worth of homes, $120 million worth of new homes
this year. Oh, no, the Barton Smith study. We had
him conduct a study to determine what is the impact
of the Woodlands on the economy of Montgomery
County. In the early days, the Woodlands was not
well accepted by Montgomery County. great deal of
suspicion doubt and uncertainty even hostility
from the hostility and there is still some of that
but it's it's beginning to wane and obviously it's
not so bad but the interesting thing about that
study is that now the woodlands constitutes 17 of
the tax base in the county it is the biggest single
taxpaying entity in the county today at one time
the connor oil field was the dominant economic
generator for taxes in the county and now the
woodlands exceeds and when i say the woodlands i
mean all the homes collectively the woodland pays
more taxes than the common law bill pays to support
schools and the county government we also now
constitute about 16 percent of the voting
population in the county
The community is predominantly Republican,
predominantly conservative, and it's changed
the shape of politics within the county. When I
moved here 20-something years ago into
Montgomery County, you could not find anyone who
would profess to be a Republican, except Dr. Wally
Wilkerson, who was part of the Republican Party.
Today, you can't find anybody who agrees that
they're a Democrat.
Local office holders who originally were elected
as Democrats have now changed to the Republican
Party for fear of being defeated. The Woodlands
has done, I think, a number of positive things for
the county. It's helped create economic growth.
It's helped create jobs. It's provided, I think,
the numbers, 25% of the retail sales are generated
by people who live in the Woodlands. That's not 25%
retail sales occurring in the Woodlands. But the
population of the women's generates 25% of the
retail sales. Has this study been published? I'll
give you a copy of it. I think we'd like that. Jack,
could you see it? It's interesting reading. And I
got Dr. Smith to do it, so it would be objective. We
could do it, but that would not be held to be fairly
objective. Credibility would be questioned,
but... This will give you some good background
information from a third-party source. It's got a
good executive summary, and then he kind of gets
involved in the science of evaluating
demographics and economic evaluation.
The executive summary makes more exciting
reading than the methodology.
Well, you know, we've
got the
same over in the Gulf, and we've got oil prices that
went down $5 a barrel yesterday, and I don't know
what they've done today, and there is a
devastating financial conditions for financing
real estate nationally. And while the market is
good in the Houston region, financial
institutions don't look favorably upon real
estate financing. So I think it's going to have
some detrimental effect on Houston, even though
we're doing much better than the nation as a whole.
We still look to the money-centered banks for a lot
of financing. And I don't think that it's going to
be as generous as we would like for it to be. But so
far we've spent $2 billion in the river, total. $2
billion has been invested by all parties in the
river. A billion dollars of that is in residential
homes owned by third parties. The rest of it's in
schools and churches and office buildings and
research facilities and land development and
those kinds of things. The total investment in the
woodlands will be about $12 billion by all
parties. And the population will be somewhere
around 150,000 people. And we anticipate having
about 80,000 permanent jobs. Someone asked, when
are you going to finish developing the woodlands?
And the very clear answer is that we never will,
because no city is ever complete. I don't think
you've ever driven through any city in this
country where you could they have finished. I
mean, there will always be redevelopment,
reconstruction of buildings, replacement of
housing. But essentially, most of the
development will have occurred by the year 2027,
2020, 2030.
Somewhere in that range. We have a very definite
plan year by year, unit by unit. You asked about the
the strategy for developing it that we have a an
economic model that we update annually that looks
forward and takes into account changes since we
last did it is that in-house is that done in there we
do it with some outside consulting help but it's a
it's an in-house document that we could use for our
own planning purposes and we don't publish that
well do you see that this kind of expansion
population growth as being a threat or a great
difficulty in uh continuing to manage the
environment and the quality of life type
situation, or do you feel quite comfortable that
can be accommodated? I think it can be
accomplished, but it's becoming more
complicated. I think the 1990s is going to be the
decade of the environment. We see things like
concern about hazardous waste, endangered
species, the wetlands, the Clean Air Act. All of
those things are going to come to bear. Frankly, I
don't think in the future you're going to see very
many large-scale communities like the woodlands
undertaken in the future for those very reasons.
There's so much uncertainty over the life span of
developing a community like this that you deal
with a lot of uncertainties, a lot of risk
involved. You have so much front-end investment
that you have to recoup out of out of the assumption
of later development no i don't
i don't think you probably will i think the
government involvement should be one of
providing incentives and not providing
roadblocks actually you know some people look at
the woodlands as a government-sponsored
community We borrowed $50 million to start the
development of the Woodlands, but we're paying
that back. That was a loan. That was not a gift from
heaven. It was a little lower interest rate, but
when you add to it all the administrative cost of
monitoring that for the government and reporting
and the hassle you go through, I'm not sure it was a
good bargain. George Mitchell will tell you it was
a tremendous bargain, but I lived over here
working on those reports that had to go in, and I was
There was a cost attached to that. But I think the
environment is going to be a great challenge in the
future. We, I think, tried to address it very well.
And I think we've done a pretty good job of it. But I
think there are going to be more and more rules and
regulations promulgated without a clear
understanding of the impact. It's going to cause
uncertainty and delays. And the delays is money.
When you get one of these started, you really need
to move along with it. You can't have periods of
time when you do nothing. What projects are you
really devoting most of your time to right now? Or
is there any kind of affinity like that? Well, I'm
pretty well involved in all the projects that are
going on. It's hard in a community like this to
separate it into a series of projects. They're all
interrelated. Right now, this week, we have the
formal opening of the new 18-hole golf course
designed by Arnold Palmer. And we are expanding
the country club and the large... What is that
opening? It's on the 30th. You're invited. Thank
you, sir. It's coming at 11 o'clock. But we're...
Right now, after being here 15 years, a number of
our facilities are 15 years old, and we have had an
ongoing refurbishing program, but right now it's
a little more intensive than it has been in the
past. We've renovated the conference center,
updated the guest rooms, enlarging the country
club, separating the conference center from the
country club for their two separate entities over
there. We're enlarging the golf facilities
because the The membership has grown
tremendously. We're engaged in, continually
engaged in this economic development program and
encouraging businesses to locate here. And the
main thrust in that, again, would be right now is in
the medical area, in the, say, in the umbrella of
the advanced research area. And also
well-established companies looking for a home.
For example, we have the products testing
laboratory for Penzol here, a well-established
company. Betts Process Chemical has a major
operation here. Up in the Trade Center, you may or
may not have seen it, it's a rail to serve Trade
Center and major distribution centers there
owned by Michelin Tire, Kraft Food, Eckerd Drug,
The distribution outlet for McDonald's, as well
as Burger King are there. Are you continuing that
expansion? Yeah. As a matter of fact, most of our
buildings are completely full there. We have an
ongoing program to enhance and improve the
mobility of the region through the encouragement
of improving highways. We've created here in the
Woodlands, and I think this is kind of unique,
we've created a commuter van system. and also
commuter bus parking ride system. We're outside
the service area of the Houston Metro, so they
could not bring buses into the woodlands. So we
worked through the county and got a federal grant
and we built a parking ride lot and we financed the
buses. it's now being operated by brazos transit
authority which is located in brian right they do a
good job yeah they do a good job here too so we've
been able to take uh you know four or five six
hundred cars off the highway by creating uh
alternative systems for transportation is there
no internal transportation yeah would you
anticipate ever having to do something like that
well we're setting aside rights aways and the
provision for that to occur There's no defined
plan to make it happen currently. Most of those
that have been attempted have failed. Without
some heavy subsidy, it's hard to, even up to Brian,
I don't know. What about rail service? Do you need
to teach them anything in monorail or anything
like that in the Houston-Dallas connection?
Well, that's always a possibility, and part of the
There's a
plan for this high-speed rail from Dallas to
Houston and to San Antonio, and there are a couple
of alternate routes for that, both to the west of
the Woodlands. They would not come through the
Woodlands, so I don't think we'd be exposed to that
opportunity, but we do have a rail system here in
Front Door. There's great debate in the city of
Houston, as you know right now, about heavy rail,
whether or not to have it, and if so, where, and who
pays for it. If, as you commented, the 90s become
the decade of the environment, highway building,
if it's pursued logically, would diminish, I
would think. Alternative, as you suggested,
alternative modes would have to then increase.
Yeah, I think you're going to see those pressures.
I think you're exactly right. With respect to the
specific question about rail, I don't think
that's in the immediate 10-year horizon just
because of cost, time to build it, who owns it and
how it operates. There are a lot of questions that
need to be answered about rail before it's
implemented anywhere in the Houston region, I
think. Great debate about that. What about
recreation
as an economic investment? That's a good
question. Back when I got started in the real
estate development business, developers
typically built golf courses to help sell land and
then hope they didn't lose too much money and
usually gave it away to The members, if they would
take it or sell it to someone for a small number of
dollars, Club Corporation of America became
wealthy by taking over clubs that developers
didn't know how to run or that members couldn't
operate. Today, that's changed. Golf is a
business, and it's a profitable business. We just
finished a study looking at golf meets in the
woodlands. Right now, we have four 18-hole golf
courses. One of them is a tournament players
course, which is in fact a day-to-day course. You
don't have to be a member to play. We have one course
for the conferees who visit the conference center
for recreational purposes. And we have two
18-hole courses set aside for country club
membership. And we had the firm by the name of Real
Estate Research Associates of California do a
comprehensive study course looking at the total
golf needs in demand throughout the life of the
Woodlands. And in total, we need 10 golf courses in
the Woodlands, 10 18-hole golf courses. So we need
six more than we have today. And that would be a
combination of the second tournament players
course, which we have the right to build, a 36-hole
daily fee course, a public course, for those who
cannot afford or choose not to belong to a country
club, And then a more exclusive country club than
the one we have today, a higher end club, maybe an
equity club where the members would own that.
We're combining that now with our land planning
for the remaining portions of the woodlands to
make sure we set aside enough land in the right
place to accommodate those golfing
needs. Yeah. We've
got all the real estate falls under... We've got
two parcels of land in Colorado, one between Aspen
and Snowmass and one at Steamboat Springs. And the
regulatory environment up there is a morass.
Yeah, dealing with everybody. Forest Service is
the one who grants permits, but you deal with
everyone who chooses to deal with you. But in the
area between Aspen and Snowmass, we have
developed about 800 acres of land. And have sold
lots to individuals who have built homes. And
that's in the very beautiful Owl Creek Valley that
extends the entire distance from the town of Aspen
to the town of Snowmass. And in Steamboat Springs,
we have 3,000 acres of land that we own jointly with
a third party. And there, we're actively trying to
get a permit to build a ski mountain. And that one
will take on a different character from what we
have in Aspen. has been very low density. The only
thing that, you know, recreation ties nicely with
your quality of life and with the types of your
medical care, atmosphere, and all of that. Even
with the environmental. The jogging path. Yeah.
You asked about other recreational things here in
the Woodlands, and you mentioned jogging path.
That's probably the single most popular
recreational amenity we have. We have 53 miles of
pathway. And it costs... $20 a foot to build that.
Is that your cost? $10,000.
$10,000 a month. $5 to $10 million invested in this
pathway. I mean, that's a tremendous investment
in a recreational facility. But it's used by
everybody. Kids on bicycles, people out for
exercise, people both jogging and riding
bicycles and actually commuting in some cases
from home to school and from home to shopping.
We've got some of the retirement communities
located close to the shopping center, and you see
people in wheelchairs walking down and moving
down a pathway to go to the grocery store. So it's
kind of a nice feel to it. We have a swimming
athletic center, which is Olympic quality in
terms of its facilities. As a matter of fact,
Olympic tryouts are held there, and we're in the
process of enlarging and upgrading that
currently. I think in summary, I really don't know
how much time you wanted to give us, but... I've
still got a couple of questions. Okay, you go
ahead. Well, one of the things which you started,
and then we got distracted away from it. You
mentioned some of the things that in the future...
not that they're worried, but the things you're
planning to do. The other side of that coin is, what
are the future incentives or the initiatives that
you perceive? Are there future initiatives? Is it
going to be business as usual, or are there other
initiatives that the Woodlands is going to
develop in the next two to three decades? Well,
yeah, there are very specific things that we need
to develop in the next several decades. One is town
center. Town center is well-defined on paper,
still defined if you try to find it. But it will
include about 17 million square feet of office
space, which is equivalent to the downtown of
probably Cincinnati, if you measure in square
footage. But it will include a regional shopping
mall, and it will be the urbanized center for
Northeastern. Not only the urbanized center for
Woodlands, but we look at that as a focal point for
business in Northeastern. It's a Termination of
the Hardy Toll Road is on I-45. It's the
intersection of some major east-west roadways
under design and partially under construction.
And it will be the center of population for more
than a million people. So we look at that as a big
item on our agenda for the next 10 to 15 years. We
look at the research forest only at beginning
stages right now. And we would hope that we would
have 15,000, 20,000 jobs in the research forest
over the next 20 years. And in fact, do things like
have been done in the research triangle of North
Carolina, or around the Stanford and the Silicon
Valley, or Route 128 in Boston. So that's a
long-term goal and objective. We work on it every
day. And we try not to lose sense of direction of
where we're trying to get to and be discouraged if
we haven't gotten there as quickly as we'd like.
Those are two very big elements. uh beyond that the
the continuation of a quality residential
program on the remaining lands in the woodlands
that continues to provide housing opportunities
for the secretary and the clerk in the grocery
store as well as the chairman of the board all done
in a tasteful way neighborhoods that are close
together so you get the social intermixing of
school level anyway public schools where you
don't have an elitist side of town and a poor side of
town so that's an objective we had from the
beginning and we still pursue we have a couple of
major lakes we'd like to build in the woods for
recreational purposes and that's going to take
some regulatory approvals governmental health
and things like that but that's part of the mission
that we look at as being important to us. Let me ask
you a couple of specific questions. My brother's a
city manager in Las Vegas. We've been doing that
for more than a dozen years. I called him several
months ago, or actually a better part of a year ago,
when we first started kicking around. Well, over
the years I've talked to them, I'm completely at
sea when it comes to the niceties or the crudities,
however you want to look at it. I've run in a
community. Both definitions are right. You
mentioned that the Woodlands is
non-incorporated. That's right. Will it be?
Well, let me give you the legal side and then maybe
the practical side, a little background. Right
now we have a community association. It was formed
when the Woodlands was created. and is supported
financially by assessments applied against all
properties that have been developed in the river.
And it has about a $6 million budget now. And it
provides all the municipal services that the city
would provide, including the fire department,
the collection of garbage, the street escape
maintenance, neighborhood watch programs,
emergency medical services, street lights,
mowing grass, maintaining the parks and
pathways. It does everything the city would do.
And the outlook is for that mechanism to continue
until one of two things happens. The woodlands
become separately incorporated in the city, or
it's incorporated into the corporate boundaries
of the city of Houston. And under current state
law, the woodlands is in the extracurricular
jurisdiction of the city of Houston. And the city
of Houston has the right and authority to annex the
woodlands any time it would like to do that. As a
practical matter, I don't think they will for
another year for a couple reasons. One, we're not
contiguous to the existing boundaries of the city
of Houston, and they would have to step over a lot of
the land that would not be in their corporate
boundaries. And two, they're not going to annex
the woodlands as long as there is a significant
debt existing in the municipal utility districts
that have been created to provide utilities until
that debt is paid down. I would think that over the
next 20 years, unless state law changes, that
Woodlands will become part of the City of Houston.
Is that an assumption built into your strategic
plans? Yes. I'll go on to say, too, that if you took a
vote in the Woodlands today, there'd probably be
90% of the people who would choose not to be in the
city of Houston and maybe 10% who would. So it's not
necessarily a popular decision. But when you
think about it on a regional basis and step aside
from the selfish, what's best for me question,
Cities up in the northeastern part of the country
and other parts of the country have been choked,
small incorporated cities surrounding them,
productive people moving out of the inner city,
living and paying taxes in these small
incorporated areas. And the central city has no
tax base or declining tax base to provide
essential services, the airport, the library,
the museum, the streets that lead to the jobs where
people work. and philosophically george
mitchell felt that the city of houston needed to
have the ability to continue to annex land and grow
as it could provide services for those areas so by
contract the woodlands is included in etj it was
not it was not geographically situated to be
included in etj but by contract it is now included
in etj isn't that I mean, a lot of what you said, you
know, were you to go, well, one, does the community
in fact know that? Yes. They do know that? Isn't
that then a potential source of some grievous
conflict in the future? Yes. Which means, I mean,
what's going to happen? Well,
right now the approach, and I think the realistic
response is that nothing is going to happen for a
period of time. city of houston is not going to
annex it with them for a period of time you know
likelihood yeah it's a sleeping dog that's going
to wake up well it slept in a place called clear lake
city until the residents there challenged the
system and under state law an area can if it wants to
separately incorporate it first has to ask the
city in whose etj it resides to annex them and if the
city refuses to do that then they can incorporate
the clear lake city asked the question and they
were annexed into the city of houston and that was
not a pleasant set of circumstances existed for a
number of years as you look around houston every
major large-scale community is in etj in the city
of houston it's not unique to the woodland no i know
so wherever you uh around the city of Houston,
you're faced with the same issue. So it's not a
unique Woodlands question. It's a regional
issue. But the distinction is, I mean, forgive me,
but the distinction is those communities,
this is a corporation running a community. That
isn't happening. Kingwood is, too. Oh, is it? Fair
Lake City is, too. Because what I would... you
know, at least there'd be a nagging headache in the
back of my skull that at some point, instead of
animosity being turned toward the city of Houston
or some other place, that I'm going to catch it in my
lap, you know. Well, under the community
association that we have here, it's a
representative form of government that
residents elect representatives to serve on
their behalf on the board of directors that
addresses all the municipal services and charges
for those services that the scope of delivering
those services and in fact in 1992 the residents
will control that wca board the community
association board and the developer will no
longer control that one so it's not that the
corporation controls the community uh the
residents will control the community you're in
the middle of that transfer right now yeah right
that was my second question we're in the
transition that takes place in 1992 and We're
trying to go through the discussion of trying to
prepare the community for that happening. And
right now, frankly, there is some confusion. It's
a complicated issue. Most people don't think
about it day to day. It's not something they deal
with. And then when confronted with the notion
that something's going to happen, the natural
reaction is, if it's changing, I need to be
concerned about it. And then they try to learn
quickly what they need to be concerned about. And
we're going through a very lengthy educational
process now to make sure they don't misunderstand
that we're the bad guys. Sure. That was my other
question. As the privatization of city
management or government proceeds, what's your
role? How will you continue to influence or affect
the quality of life issues, the infrastructure,
the that you've worked so hard to establish. Well,
we hope we put in place a framework with respect to
those areas already developed that will last long
after the development is gone. That was the, I
don't like the word scheme, that was the concept.
To put in place a form of quasi-government.
Residents would run, control, operate, and take
care of their own needs. Our intent is not to be here
forever. probably seems that we will be. We'll be
here for a long time. But in 1992, when this first
community association control transfers to the
residents, a second community association will
be formed to carry out the development mission on
lands not yet developed. So we will, in essence,
control. We'll have the capacity to control the
undeveloped lands. with respect to lands already
developed, the residents will control that. So
there's a transfer of control with respect to
what's already been done. In terms of residential
development, you're about halfway where you
anticipate being? No. No, we've got 30,000 people
live here, 150,000. 150,000, you're assuming.
No, whatever percent that is. You've got a lot to
do. 20% somewhere. But it's an accelerating pace.
And if we don't have eight years of economic
hardship, maybe we'll move along faster. We're 16
years old, and we've been in the doldrums eight of
those 16 years. So I think our progress has been, I
think, surprisingly good, considering what's
happening. Well, I think you're right. I think
you're right. You know, the rest of the country has
been in college stations. You've still been
pretty active. Let me ask one last question, and
then I'll shut up. And you may find this
impertinent. But it's something that I wondered
about as I talked with Mr. Richmond, Mr. Brown, and
now you. What would happen to the Woodlands if
George Mitchell died tomorrow? Well, the
Woodlands Corporation is a wholly owned
subsidiary of a public corporation. George, in
fact, owns 62% of the stock of that corporation,
but it is publicly held. and will have an ongoing
life should something unfortunate happen to Mr.
Mitchell. I'm not privy to how his estate would be
managed. I would expect that a great portion of it
probably would go into a foundation. And I would
not expect any great changes over the short term.
Over a longer period of time, I don't guess I would
be capable of addressing that. But there's enough
framework in the Woodlands, just talking about
the Woodlands itself and the community of the
Woodlands. There's enough framework here
already in place and enough initiatives in place,
and it's a market that vitality has been
established to the point where I think it could
have an ongoing life beyond this commission. You
feel that the strategic plans you've developed
and the machinery of those are going to continue on
regardless? Yeah. There may be some modification
to it, but I come back to the earlier statements.
What we try to do is build fabric in the community
that gives the community ongoing life and set into
place some institutions that have a life of its
own. And it will be a viable community. You know, a
town of 30,000 people is not a small town. And it's
got a lot of elements in it that are necessary to
make it function, even if it's leading up others.
By 1992, basically, the Woodlands Corporation
would be another business located in the
Woodlands City, I'd say, in the transfer
authority. Except that they'll still be
developing. They'll still be developing. We're
going to continue to develop. In 1992, you won't be
able to tell any difference visually if you drive
in here. And if you live here, you probably won't
notice any difference either. Legally, there
will be some changes that take place. But I think
with respect to the development concept, the
quality of what we're doing, the pace at which
we're doing it, the way it's financed, there'll be
little or no change to that. Well, good. We
probably shouldn't have put it on the board. Well,
we haven't written that position. I like to talk
about the Woodlands. Well, it's exciting. Yeah,
it's a unique opportunity, a unique place. It's
nice to have a sense of pride in what you're doing. I
guess the most satisfying things I can do is not sit
here in the office, but occasionally on the
weekend drive around and see what's happening. I
mean, it's kind of impressive when you get out and
look at all the things that have happened. And we
got caught up in the fires like anyone else.
There's a crisis today or a crisis tomorrow. We
addressed that, and we'd like to think we always
have a long-range vision, but in truth and in fact,
you have daily things that you need to do. It's nice
to back away occasionally and reflect on what has
happened and what can't happen. And we've got a
staff of people who have been here a long time. That
was my next question. How do you work? Do you have
staff meetings regularly? Yeah, we have staff
meetings and planning meetings and meetings on
special issues. But most of our employees have
been with us 10, 15 years and been working together
as a team for that period of time. We don't have a lot
of turnover. And you don't have to have quite as
many meetings when people have been around that
long. Everyone knows what they need to do and
what's expected of them. But in managing this
process, we have a staff meeting once a week where
our key managers get together and talk about the
issues and try to stay away from numbers and
details, but look at the big picture. Then we have
specific planning meetings in the residential
communities and also in the commercial and retail
areas. We have staff groups. Jack provides
advertising and VR services to the operating
units. Each operating unit doesn't have an
advertising and VR person. We have centralized
engineering and construction group. We have a
centralized land planning group.
We have a centralized legal, accounting,
financial services. And then we have essentially
three operating groups. We have a residential
group, a commercial industrial group, and we have
a hospitality group. Those are the three
components of the Woodlands community. And then
we have Another group that we call Mitchell
Southwest that takes care of all the properties
not in the woods, in Galveston Island. We own
40,000 acres of timberland between here and
College Station.
We have resort properties on Galveston, on Lake
Travis, Lake Livingston. And that's taken care of
by a separate group. That's a good summary. The
stuff that Mr. Mitchell does, The restoration
stuff, I'm guessing. No, we provide the technical
services. That's all his money, all his
initiative. We have a couple architects that work
in our planning group that help him select
architects, especially trained in renovation
work. We oversee some of the construction for him,
and we are reimbursed on a time basis for the work we
provide for him. That's basically like a
contractual contract. Yeah, right. But you
are—you are doing the—what's not pirates—what's
the point? Point Venture? No, down at the office.
Pirates— Pirates Beach and Cove? Yeah. Yeah,
that's our— And there's new activity there,
right? Yeah, right. Right. Several kinds of new
activity. One, we're developing part of it, and
we're in the courthouse on part of it, so— We've
been trying to get approval to develop one little
parcel down there for 16 years now. And it's caught
up in emotion and environment and local politics.
Well, we sure appreciate your time. Well, thanks
for coming by. It's really been a good time. I look
forward to seeing what work product you produce
here. We will too, yeah. What is your time frame
for? Really about six months.